CTA customers value their time and some
CTA values its customers it is doing
whatever it can to take the guesswork
out of bus arrivals bus tracker texting
information is now available at every
CTA bus stop every single one
yeah I use it every day for the
fullerton bus
I can plan just so I won't be late for
classes or wherever I'm going
it actually does help a lot you know due
to the cold due to you know traffic and
some like that it does help just makes
it so that I'm not like
the CTA knows its customers love bus
tracker it also knows not everyone has a
smartphone to access the internet-based
tracking system that's why there's bus
tracker texting the market wanted more
and the customers wanted more with other
devices on the market like cell phones
so we moved into the texting environment
so if you don't have access to a
computer or you don't have a phone that
has internet access but you have the
ability to text this gives you the
opportunity to also receive bus tracker
information and so you're not left out
every CTA bus stop sign now has the
identification code needed to get a bus
arrival text yep every single bus stop a
pilot program was tested at 42 locations
in early 2010 based on usage and
customer feedback the program expanded
to all bus stops on the system but that
particular application is exploded in
the last couple of months in the month
of July before we started the
installation of all the bus stop by
these stickers we were averaging about
10,000 texts to weight sacks on a given
day and for the month of September we're
averaging about 24,000 here's how to use
bus tracker texting text the message CTA
bus one word then add a space then type
in the route ID number on the bus stop
sign send the text to four one four one
one in just a few seconds you'll get a
text back we quickly send you back a
response with the top three next
arriving buses we used a blackberry with
a bright screen for demonstration
purposes but any phone with texting
capability will work older cell phones
newer cell phones smartphones and
whatever else might be coming down the
line best of all the CTA doesn't charge
for the service there is no cost to
using the text messaging feature of bus
tracker only the your usual text
messaging service charges that you might
pay in your plan for even more
convenience customers can sign up to
have bus tracker texts sent to them at a
designated time each day say you always
on your work day at five o'clock you can
get a text at 5:01 every day with your
estimated bus arrival times you send our
application the information bus stop
that you're looking to get the
information for the time that you'd like
to deal with either one particular time
or multiples and at that particular
designated time
you will get the information you need
how great is that really great according
to the growing legions of bus tracker
fans who used the technology every day
we all rely on the bus to get around is
having a cars too expensive in the city
so having bus tracker and having the
text messaging available is great
there are nearly 12,000 CTA bus stop
locations in the service area